## Title
The Shooter: utopia

## Kernel
The Shooter is about a man who is out to show everyone that he’s the best shot in the world.

## Spine
"The Shooter" is about Jake, an ex-security sharpshooter whose past failure led to the demise of his companions. Having barely survived, Jake blames himself for that fateful mistake and he is slowly consumed by the guilt leading him into a long depression and alcohol abuse. Jake has isolated himself, still living in the past with a deep nostalgia for what he used to be. However, he is dragged back to reality by rapidly evolving events. Given the opportunity to find his old self, Jake joins the fight against a dangerous criminal group and the ghosts from his past.

## Synopsis

Jake recognizes Rudy, a former colleague, who stands with Emily after she was shot by Dead Eye J., a dangerous sharpshooter, rumoured to be the best of the best. Emily needs assistance and Rudy cannot continue the chase, setting the initial tension: Jake has to help fighting the criminals but Jake has to prove that he is still the best shot by challenging Dead Eye J.

Jake opens a (futuristic) connection with Rudy and catches up with the criminals, starting the second level: Jake fights the criminals in an industrial site filled with automatons, which complicate the fight. The tension rises as Jake realizes that he lost the criminals’ trail, remembering his past failure and starting to doubt himself.

Rudy contacts Jake, telling him that Phil, a mutual friend, needs back-up immediately, initiating the third level: Jake helps Phil take down the criminals in a warehouse. As the fight progresses, Patrick, a well-known anti-technology criminal, takes down Phil’s forces one by one as he taunts Jake with his echoing voice, ending up revealing that Jake failure resulted from someone tempering with his pistol. Jake finds Patrick and a boss fight occurs.

Phil suspects that there was a traitor in Jake’s unit, responsible for setting him up to fail that fateful shot. With his past catching up, Jake has to find out more and continues through to the final stage. He recognizes Dead Eye J. as his presumably dead lover, starting the conflict of Jake with his past. She is surprised, yet happy, to see him, admitting to being spy and regretting for all the pain she caused him. Still having feelings for him, she asks him to join her, so they can be together again. Jake refuses and the final conflict starts. Defeated, Jane reiterates her feelings and her conviction that society must free itself from the shackles of technology to survive.

At the height of tension, the player is given a choice: kill her for revenge, arrest her for justice, or free her for love. The resolution depends on this choice. Jake proved that he is the best shot, regaining his confidence and and finally letting the past behind him. Jane’s death triggers a strong retaliation by the rebels. Jane’s arrest results in her trial and conviction. Jane’s freedom will result in her laying low.

## Character Brief for the protagonist

Jake has a deeply negative view of his own worth. He is oppressed by a constant feeling of guilt for the lives of his friends, his lover Jane, and for his failure to prevent the rebellion. He tries to hide his doubts as much as possible, but he is haunted by his past, a feeling which resurfaces from time to time. However, his motivation and will to restore his former self, rekindled by his chance meeting with Rudy, will push him to his limits and drive him into confrontation with a criminal group that is trying to escape. He now returns to find the truth and find redemption for his past mistake. He must show to himself that he is the best shot in the world or ultimately be consumed by his guilt. He is rusty from his dark days, but he still has an unmatched agility and precision. He can keep calm under great pressure and patiently wait for the right time for the best shot. However, his lack of confidence and his fear that another failure may cost more lives keeps him unfocused and hesitant.

## Character Brief for the antagonist

A middle-aged woman with a hard and serious expression. Her black hair contrasts with her piercing cold blue eye. She wears her old tactical combat suit and carries an automatic rifle around her shoulder with a number of devices tied to her belt. Jane’s nickname refers to an experimental implant, the "dead-eye", that increases her shooting abilities. However, something went wrong and this device changed her. Jane is a bitter, vengeful member of a rebellious group who aims at putting an end to all bionic improvements and artificial forms of intelligence. She was the one who manipulated and sabotaged Jake’s operation and contributing to his failure, allowing the rise of the rebellion. She is now responsible of the explosion at the University Research Facilities and is trying to escape the security forces, knowing very well that she will not be given a second change if caught.

She regrets the pain she caused Jake, and still harbours feelings for him, but in her eyes, her actions are fully justified as they will prevent mankind from destroying itself. Her unique and undivided focus on revenge is fundamental to archiving her goals, but it also isolates her and blinds her, sometimes putting herself in difficult situations.

##  Setting Description

At some undefined point in the future, the invention of the “nodes” brought mankind into a new age of communication. These little devices are able to “read thoughts” and translate them into the cyberspace, facilitating communication between humans and with machines. Under a layer of secure identification and access protocols, this single invention brought great social improvement, leading to the creation of a technical utopia, the City, where technology permeates all part of society and the rise of bionic medicine and artificial intelligence is just a stone’s throw away. However, doubts have been cast on these transhumanising technologies after an unnamed event, becoming a divisive issue in society and the underlying conflict of the plot.

All the story occurs in the City, a huge, bright and wide space, where the greatest scientific minds are gathered at the University, a shining symbol of hope for humanity’s future for those who believe in transhumanism, but a brutal symbol of slavery for the human purists. The game progressively moves between two places that are the symmetric opposite of each other.

Level one starts close in the a paradisiac garden surrounding the University Research Centre, a wide, bright and peaceful place with a lush mixture of colours, sounds and smells. Level two sees the tranquillity of the gardens disrupted by for the bustling noise of automatons hurryingly working like clockwork in the still bright and clean industrial zone. The industrial zone is dotted with warehouses, where level three occurs, moving into a darker space, filled with all kings of stored goods and losing the previous feeling of openness. Level four occurs in a secret network of dark, humid and warm underground tunnels, Even though this level is again silent, it is in such a different setting that this silence becomes deafening and oppressing, a feeling reinforced by the narrow and poorly ventilated underground passages.


##  Presentation Scheme

The taking control by the player is made clear by the appearance of the game interface. As he runs for cover, Jake connects his node, showing the map of the area in the corner. He witnesses a security agent being shot and the player will use the cursor to pick up his pistol. A civilian asking for help is heard, adding a green dot on the map. Jake navigates the gardens automatically, as player focus on the shooting and clearing each region. New civilians are added regularly to the map. All civilians have a secret timer after which they will disappear. Some are impossible to save, raising the pressure to be as fast as possible. Some unmarked civilians may cross Jake's path, and he will have to avoid shooting them. The level score will be the number of rescued civilians minus those killed accidentally. At the end of the level, a new dialogue scene is shown, where Jake meet is old friend Rudy, who stands with a bleeding security colleague. Rudy tells Jake that Emily was shot by Dead Eye J. and needs immediate assistance. Because he refuses to abandon Emily, the criminals will get away this time. Jake, decides to help and chase after the criminals. They connect through their nodes, and now Rudy's holographic image will show up talking to Jake. The player is given a number of choices of guns, grenades and armours (Emily's and Rudy's own equipment) to choose from, depending on of his level score.

Jake runs after the criminals to an industrial site while Rudy explains that the criminals use a secret "node" network to hide their locations, however, he can send the coordinates for all civilians in the area. In this stage, the player needs to navigate between storage containers, and can now select which way to go by clicking on the available options. Depending on his choices, he will find different numbers of criminals and different items. Rudy will help with suggestions of which way to choose and some information about the criminals. This stage is populated with automatons and, as the first one is shot, Rudy will ask Jake to be careful as these are important worker robots. He updates the map with yellow dots, representing the automatons. However, it will be made clear by the criminals' actions, that shooting these automatons can be helpful, for example, exploding one can easily kill a difficult group of criminals. In addition, some of the marked civilians are disguised criminals, hoping to attract security agents into a trap. Again, each criminal as a secret timer to escape, and some simple escape in front of the player, adding pressure to the level. The score of this level is the number of criminals shot minus the number of automatons destroyed. At the end, Jake realizes he lost track of the criminals. With their escape, he starts remembering his past failure and starts doubting himself. He expresses his doubts to Rudy, who tries to explain that was difficult and sensitive mission and Jake had done all anyone could have done. Rudy then goes silent for a moment as the player upgrades his equipment from the items found, again based on the level score.

After choosing the new equipment, Rudy reveals that the criminals have not escaped yet! Phil found them but he is under heavy fire at one of the warehouses and needs back-up immediately. Jake runs to the indicated coordinates. In this level the setting is darker, making it more difficult to identify and shoot the criminals, and the criminals are hidden, so the player is often surprised by criminals showing up from places where they weren't before. The player can avoid being killed by following Phil's occasional suggestions. The player can also asks for a location to be secured by clicking on it, protecting himself from being surprised. Phil updates the location of all his agents as orange dots on the map. The player will notice that these security agents are slowly being shot down by Patrick, a well-known criminal, who starts to taunt them. Patrick ends up revealing that Jake failure resulted from someone tempering with his pistol, before he is found and a boss fight occurs. This fight will be made easier by having as many agents available as possible, which depends on the players performance. Once Patrick is down, Phil approaches Jake and reveals that only a traitor could have had access to his weapon. Rudy, who was connected, intervenes stating that someone must have set Jake to fail that shot. While they discuss this revelation, another choice of equipment is given to the player.

Once finished, some of Phil's men find a hidden tunnel. They investigate only to find Dead Eye J., who Jake recognizes as his presumably dead lover. Jane is also surprised to see him, admitting to being spy and regretting for all the pain she caused him. Still having feelings for him, she asks him to join her. Jake refuses and the final conflict starts. This level is very dark, so the player has to shoot at Jane's blurry and moving silhouette. Jake gets hints for Jane's location through his node, as some security agents see or confront her. The tunnels are also narrow passages, with little cover for protection. In addition, grenades are a particular danger, so the player needs find a strategy to survive.

Once defeated, Jane reiterates her feelings for Jake and her conviction that society must free itself from the shackles of technology to survive. The player is given a choice: kill her for revenge, arrest her for justice, or free her for love. Once the choice is made, a final scene shows a new confident Jake being decorated and finally letting the past behind him. Jane’s death triggers a strong retaliation by the rebels and the game ends with a still image of a shoot-out in a ruined neighbourhood. Jane’s arrest results in her trial and conviction and the game ends with a still image of Jane escaping prison looking for revenge. Jane’s freedom will result in her laying low and the end will end with a still image of her surprising Jake at his home.

##  Gameplay Flowchart 

[Flow chart](https://github.com/CN3ves/Games/blob/master/GameDesignArtConcepts/2%20-Story%20and%20Narrative%20Development%20for%20Video%20Games/FlowChart.pdf)


## Changes from the original 
I found that the requirement (from the kernel) to “be the best shot” was a bit limiting and kept me going back to the idea of defining “best” through a competition. As such, the main change I did was deciding to move away from the concept of competition (sports) and explore settings with a more abstract definition of “best”, being more about self-worth and overcoming difficulties (through shooting) than literary being about getting the “gold medal”. My initial scribbles led me to a cyberpunk setting, but I decided to turn it around on itself. We have a conflict that arises from the threat of technology to society, but the setting is not a dystopia and the failure of technology is a predicted treat that has not materialized yet. This setting would allow me to make a shooting game with many different weapons concepts (the idea of the game) while focusing on an abstract idea of what is a of “best shot”.

I kept the four stages/level structure and the character of each level from the class’ game version. I maintained Jake’s tragic past and designed him around a disgraced character looking to prove himself as well. I also tied both Jake and Jane together by having Jane, once again, sabotaging Jake and being the primary culprit for his fall from grace. The rising action was also maintained by the interaction with the secondary characters, again having Patrick providing the critical revelation and rise the action to the final confrontation.

However with a different setting, I had to re-define what was the past accident for Jake (missing that one shot), what was the motivation for Jane (her past experiences with technology) and how these would tie with the setting. The story then grew around these fixed points. Finally, I moved the climax from the shoot-out with Jane to a player’s choice as I though it would bring an unexpected ending and engage the player further with the story.
