## Assignment 
Here, revisit and revise your modified briefs and descriptions from last week’s assignment to propose The Shooter as a brand new game. 

Please submit: 

 * The refined Spine (logline) of your version of The Shooter.
 * The refined Story Synopsis of your version of The Shooter (200-400 words). 
 * Refined Character Briefs for the protagonist AND the antagonist (100-300 words each). 
 * A Story Presentation Scheme (200-400 words) OR Gameplay Flowchart that outlines the game from start to finish, and details how players interact with the game and change the course of events, if at all. You may want to include how the story presents itself here as well, ie. through cut scenes or cinematics.

Upload or write all five components (spine, synopsis, two character briefs, story presentation scheme OR gameplay flowchart) directly in each submission window. 

Give your project a title (a new game title, if you wish), and submit!

## Submission
 1. Write the refined Spine (logline) of your version of The Shooter here. 
 "The Shooter" is about Jake, an ex-security sharpshooter whose past failure led to the demise of his companions. Having barely survived, Jake blames himself for that fateful mistake and he is slowly consumed by the guilt leading him into a long depression and alcohol abuse. Jake has isolated himself, still living in the past with a deep nostalgia for what he used to be. However, he is dragged back to reality by rapidly evolving events. Given the opportunity to find his old self, Jake joins the fight against a dangerous criminal group and the ghosts from his past.
 
 2. Write the refined Synopsis of your version of The Shooter here (200-400 words). 
Jake, a disgraced ex-security agent, haunted by his past failure, longs for the person he once was. One day, as he walks the City gardens, he witnesses an explosion and the resulting shootout between security forces and  criminals. This inciting incident initiates the first level: Jake is forced into action, navigating the gardens to find and protect the civilians.

Jake recognizes Rudy, a former colleague, who stands with Emily after she was shot by Dead Eye J., a dangerous sharpshooter, rumored to be the best of the best. Emily needs assistance and Rudy cannot continue the chase, setting the initial tension: Jake has to help fighting the criminals but Jake  has to prove that he is still the best shot by challenging Dead Eye J.

Jake opens a (futuristic) connection with Rudy and catches up with the criminals, starting the second level: Jake fights the criminals in an industrial site filled with automatons, which complicate the fight. The tension rises as Jake realizes that he lost the criminals’ trail, remembering his past failure and starting to doubt himself.

Rudy contacts Jake, telling him that Phil, a mutual friend, needs back-up immediately, initiating the third level: Jake helps Phil take down the criminals in a warehouse. As the fight progresses, Patrick, a well-known anti-technology criminal, takes down Phil’s forces one by one as he taunts Jake with his echoing voice, ending up revealing that Jake failure resulted from someone tempering with his pistol. Jake finds Patrick and a boss fight occurs.

Phil suspects that there was a traitor in Jake’s unit, responsible for setting him up to fail that fateful shot. With his past catching up, Jake has to find out more and continues through to the final stage. He recognizes Dead Eye J. as his presumably dead lover, starting the conflict of Jake with his past. She is surprised, yet happy, to see him, admitting to being spy and regretting for all the pain she caused him. Still having feelings for him, she asks him to join her, so they can be together again. Jake refuses and the final conflict starts. Defeated, Jane reiterates her feelings and her conviction that society must free itself from the shackles of technology to survive.

At the height of tension, the player is given a choice: kill her for revenge, arrest her for justice, or free her for love. The resolution depends on this choice. Jake proved that he is the best shot, regaining his confidence and  and finally letting the past behind him. Jane’s death triggers a strong retaliation by the rebels. Jane’s arrest results in her trial and conviction. Jane’s freedom will result in her laying low.

 3. Upload the refined Character Brief for the protagonist of The Shooter (150-300 words). 
Jake was born and raised in the City, joining the security forces in hopes of contributing to a safer society. He was the best shot of the security forces but when it mattered, when he had but one shot, he failed, condemning his tactical unit. Barely surviving, his confidence was shattered and he was dragged into a deep depression by his guilt. Jake looks older than his age, with white hair and unkempt beard. He maintains his strength and flexibility from the continuous training, a part of his former self he kept during his darkest times. He wears worn out shirt and his old security trousers. His pistol, a trophy from his past glories, is supported on a holster tied to his right leg.

Jake has a deeply negative view of his own worth. He is oppressed by a constant feeling of guilt for the lives of his friends, his lover Jane, and for his failure to prevent the rebellion. He tries to hide his doubts as much as possible, but he is haunted by his past, a feeling which resurfaces from time to time. However, his motivation and will to restore his former self, rekindled by his chance meeting with Rudy, will push him to his limits and drive him into confrontation with a criminal group that is trying to escape. He now returns to find the truth and find redemption for his past mistake. He must show to himself that he is the best shot in the world or ultimately be consumed by his guilt. He is rusty from his dark days, but he still has an unmatched agility and precision. He can keep calm under great pressure and patiently wait for the right time for the best shot. However, his lack of confidence and his fear that another failure may cost more lives keeps him unfocused and hesitant. 

 4. Upload the refined Character Brief for the antagonist of The Shooter (150-300 words). 
Dead Eye Jane is the main antagonist. Jane came from a small farming village, where technology abruptly pushed people out of their jobs. The pressure of rising unemployment, crashed the local economy and Jane was forced to move elsewhere looking for a better live. As an ambitious but naive young woman in the City she wanted to profit as much as she could from her access to technology, taking too many risks. When this when wrong, she started to believe that technology as the catalyst of social disruption and joined with anti-technology activists.

A middle-aged woman with a hard and serious expression. Her black hair contrasts with her piercing cold blue eye. She wears her old tactical combat suit and carries an automatic rifle around her shoulder with a number of devices tied to her belt. Jane’s nickname refers to an experimental implant, the "dead-eye", that increases her shooting abilities. However, something went wrong and this device changed her. Jane is a bitter, vengeful member of a rebellious group who aims at putting an end to all bionic improvements and artificial forms of intelligence. She was the one who manipulated and sabotaged Jake’s operation and contributing to his failure, allowing the rise of the rebellion. She is now responsible of the explosion at the University Research Facilities and is trying to escape the security forces, knowing very well that she will not be given a second change if caught.

She regrets the pain she caused Jake, and still harbors feelings for him, but in her eyes, her actions are fully justified as they will prevent mankind from destroying itself. Her unique and undivided focus on revenge is fundamental to archiving her goals, but it also isolates her and blinds her, sometimes putting herself in difficult situations. 

 5. Upload the Presentation Scheme (200-400 words). The Scheme should outline the game from start to finish, and detail how players interact with the game and change the course of events, if at all. If you are uploading a Gameplay Flowchart only, use the submission box below and put some placeholder text here (ie. “See below.”)
The shooter is a point-and-click shooter game. It starts with scene showing the peaceful scenery of the City's gardens and Jake, the protagonist, as he walks distracted and burdened by his past. The tranquil sounds are disrupted by a sudden explosion and the vision changes to first person. Now as Jake, the player sees columns of smoke rising from the Research Center. Indistinct shouts and screams are heard.

The taking control by the player is made clear by the appearance of the game interface. As he runs for cover, Jake connects his node, showing the map of the area in the corner. He witnesses a security agent being shot and the player will use the cursor to pick up his pistol. A civilian asking for help is heard, adding a green dot on the map. Jake navigates the gardens automatically, as player focus on the shooting and clearing each region. New civilians are added regularly to the map. All civilians have a secret timer after which they will disappear. Some are impossible to save, raising the pressure to be as fast as possible. Some unmarked civilians may cross Jake's path, and he will have to avoid shooting them. The level score will be the number of rescued civilians minus those killed accidentally. At the end of the level, a new dialogue scene is shown, where Jake meet is old friend Rudy, who stands with a bleeding security colleague. Rudy tells Jake that Emily was shot by Dead Eye J. and needs immediate assistance. Because he refuses to abandon Emily, the criminals will get away this time. Jake, decides to help and chase after the criminals. They connect through their nodes, and now Rudy's holographic image will show up talking to Jake. The player is given a number of choices of guns, grenades and armors (Emily's and Rudy's own equipment) to choose from, depending on of his level score.

Jake runs after the criminals to an industrial site while Rudy explains that the criminals use a secret "node" network to hide their locations, however, he can send the coordinates for all civilians in the area. In this stage, the player needs to navigate between storage containers, and can now select which way to go by clicking on the available options. Depending on his choices, he will find different numbers of criminals and different items. Rudy will help with suggestions of which way to choose and some information about the criminals. This stage is populated with automatons and, as the first one is shot, Rudy will ask Jake to be careful as these are important worker robots. He updates the map with yellow dots, representing the automatons. However, it will be made clear by the criminals' actions, that shooting these automatons can be helpful, for example, exploding one can easily kill a difficult group of criminals. In addition, some of the marked civilians are disguised criminals, hoping to attract security agents into a trap.  Again, each criminal as a secret timer to escape, and some simple escape in front of the player, adding pressure to the level. The score of this level is the number of criminals shot minus the number of automatons destroyed. At the end, Jake realizes he lost track of the criminals. With their escape, he starts remembering his past failure and starts doubting himself. He expresses his doubts to Rudy, who tries to explain that was difficult and sensitive mission and Jake had done all anyone could have done. Rudy then goes silent for a moment as the player upgrades his equipment from the items found, again based on the level score.

After choosing the new equipment, Rudy reveals that the criminals have not escaped yet! Phil found them but he is under heavy fire at one of the warehouses and needs back-up immediately.  Jake runs to the indicated coordinates. In this level the setting is darker, making it more difficult to identify and shoot the criminals, and the criminals are hidden, so the player is often surprised by criminals showing up from places where they weren't before. The player can avoid being killed by following Phil's occasional suggestions. The player can also asks for a location to be secured by clicking on it, protecting himself from being surprised. Phil updates the location of all his agents as orange dots on the map. The player will notice that these security agents are slowly being shot down by Patrick, a well-known criminal, who starts to taunt them. Patrick ends up revealing that Jake failure resulted from someone tempering with his pistol, before he is found and a boss fight occurs. This fight will be made easier by having as many agents available as possible, which depends on the players performance. Once Patrick is down, Phil approaches Jake and reveals that only a traitor could have had access to his weapon. Rudy, who was connected, intervenes stating that someone must have set Jake to fail that shot. While they discuss this revelation, another choice of equipment is given to the player.

Once finished, some of Phil's men find a hidden tunnel. They investigate only to find Dead Eye J., who Jake recognizes as his presumably dead lover. Jane is also surprised to see him, admitting to being spy and regretting for all the pain she caused him. Still having feelings for him, she asks him to join her. Jake refuses and the final conflict starts. This level is very dark, so the player has to shoot at Jane's blurry and moving silhouette. Jake gets hints for Jane's location through his node, as some security agents see or confront her. The tunnels are also narrow passages, with little cover for protection. In addition, grenades are a particular danger, so the player needs find a strategy to survive.

Once defeated, Jane reiterates her feelings for Jake and her conviction that society must free itself from the shackles of technology to survive. The player is given a choice: kill her for revenge, arrest her for justice, or free her for love. Once the choice is made, a final scene shows a new confident Jake being decorated and finally letting the past behind him. Jane’s death triggers a strong retaliation by the rebels and the game ends with a still image of a shoot-out in a ruined neighborhood. Jane’s arrest results in her trial and conviction and the game ends with a still image of Jane escaping prison looking for revenge. Jane’s freedom will result in her laying low and the end will end with a still image of her surprising Jake at his home.


 6. If you are not submitting a Presentation Scheme, you may upload your Gameplay Flowchart here (PDF preferred). 
 [Flow chart](https://github.com/CN3ves/GameDesign-Art-Concepts/blob/master/2%20-Story%20and%20Narrative%20Development%20for%20Video%20Games/FlowChart.pdf)
 
### Comments
What is the strongest or most compelling thing about the student’s submission? Is there something they wrote that made you want to read more? Do you feel you will have fun playing this game?
  1. I like your game. I think the different setting and various ending seems very attractive to me.
  2. I was very impressed by your story narration style, the depth of your thinking and the organization with which you have carried everything. I had a lot to learn while reading this assignment.
  
What is one thing the student could do to communicate their ideas more clearly or effectively?
   1. I really think this is great. Cannot way to see the game!
   2. It would be interesting if the player could choose sides in the game at the beginning - to be Jane or Jake? For or against technology. They would get different viewpoints depending on what they choose and whether they win or loose.
